# Command - `a`

> Inserting text after the cursor with `a`

The `a` command is similar to the `i` command in that it puts you into insert mode from command mode. The difference is the position in which you start insert mode.

To remember this, think `a` as in *after* the cursor.

## Exercise 01  - Profile: Second Attempt

The goal of the first exercise is to learn the `a` command.

Remember the first exercise for the `i` command? We're going to do the same thing, but with `a`. It should be easier.

1. Navigate to the "Name" line and stop on the ":".
2. Use the `a` command and add your name.
3. When you're done, hit `esc` to return to command mode.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 to complete the rest of the profile.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

My Profile

Name:
Favorite food:
Favorite color:

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Be mindful of which command you need to use. Generally, you'll use `i` when you need to add something before or in the middle of words and use `a` when you need to add something after.
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which finger you're using to hit the `a` key. For me, I use my left pinky finger.

## Exercise 02 - Add the Punctuation

The goal of the second exercise is to practice making changes throughout a line with `a`.

Looks like this comment from a JavaScript program is missing a few periods and a question mark. Can you fix it?

1. Use the commands you've learned so far to move through the sentence.
2. Use the `a` command to add punctuation (. and ?) after the last word in the short sentences.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
// This is a code comment But I didn't add put punctuation Did you notice Hopefully you did
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- You know you've mastered the command when you know when to use `a` vs. `i`.

## Exercise 03  - Codeword: Bubblegum

The goal of the third exercise is to practice using `i`, `a`, `I` and `A` in the same context so that you know when to use each.

1. Add the missing semicolon to end of Line 64 using `A`.
2. Add the word `let` to the beginning of Line 67 using `I`.
3. Add the missing "d" using `a` so that it reads "codeword".
4. Add the missing " in front of "bubblegum" using the `i` command.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
codewor = bubblegum"
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- As you can see, you'll want to get comfortable with all four commands because you'll run into scenarios where you need to switch between them within the same line.

## Exercise 04 - Tech Job Openings

The goal of the fourth exercise is to hammer home the `a` command.

You're writing a JavaScript program related to tech job openings. It looks like your variable names should be plural. Can you fix them?

1. Use the commands you know to move down, word by word.
2. Use the `a` command to add an "s" to the end of your variable names.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let techGiant = ["Apple", "Google", "Microsoft", "Facebook"];

let opening = ["Backend Engineer", "QA Engineer", "Frontend Engineer"];

let applicant = ["Alex", "Susan", "Jake", "April"];
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Keep your eye on the goal here - practicing the `a` command.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing

The goal of the fifth exercise is to reflect on what commands you know so far.

Oh no! We're missing "s"s in the first word after the commands. Can you fix them?

1. Start on Line 114.
2. Use the `e` command to move ot the end of the word "move".
3. Use the `a` command to add an "s" at the end.
4. Repeat Steps 2-3 for all the other commands for the words "move", "let" and "insert".

<!-- Text for exercise starts

- `h` move left toward the *house*
- `j` move down (*jumping* off a ledge)
- `k` move up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward)
- `l` move right (*left*to right, like English)
- `i` let me *insert* text
- `A` let me *Append* text
- `I` let me *Initially* insert text
- `x` let me *ex-out* a character
- `r` let me *replace* a character
- `o` insert a line below the *original* line
- `O` insert a line *Over* the current line
- `w` move word by word
- `e` move *end* of word by end of word
- `b` move *backwards* word by word
- `a` let me insert text *after* the cursor

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `a` command.

15/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, answer these questions out loud and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `a` command used for?
- In which mode do you use it and what mode do you land in?
- What's the difference between `i` and `a`?