# Command - `A`

> Append to the end of a line with `A`

The `A` command is another command for making changes.
It places your cursor at the end of the line in insert mode. It's the combination of hitting `l` until you're at the end of the line + pressing `i` to go into insert mode.

A good way to remember this is thinking `A` for *Append*.

*Note: keep in mind this is a capital "a" -> `A`. We will cover lowercase "a" in the Advanced section.*

## Exercise 01  - Fix the Quotes

The goal of the first exercise is to familiarize yourself with the command `A`.

You noticed a few typos in the code your friend wrote. Can you fix it?

1. Using the commands you know, navigate to the start of Line 26.
2. Use the command `A` to enter insert mode at the end of the sentence.
3. Add the missing double-quotes " and the semicolon ;
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for Lines 28 and 30.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let day = "Wednesday

let phrase = "Happy

let otherPhrase = "Sad
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- If the `A` for *Append* mnemonic doesn't stick, try thinking of your own!
- Look down at your fingers briefly to identify which fingers you're using to hit the `A` key. For me, my right pinky hits the `shift` while my left pinky hits `a` to make `A`.

## Exercise 02 - Exploring with Exclamations

The goal of the second exercise is to understand how position affects (or doesn't) the command `A`.

1. Move the cursor to the start of the first "here" in the sentence below.
2. Use the `A` command.
3. Add an exclamation point ! at the end.
4. Repeat steps 1-3 for the other two "here"s.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Start here or here or here, and see where it takes you!

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Be aware of any differences you notice while using the `A` command depending on the position of the cursor in the line.

## Exercise 03  - Are these Questions?

The goal of this exercise is to continue practicing the `A` command.

1. Start at the beginning of Line 69.
2. Use the command `A`.
3. Add the missing question mark ? to the end.
4. Repeat Steps 1-3 for Lines 71 and 73.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

I forgot to add punctuation to the end of this sentence. Or did I

Is this a question

This sentence is super long. Depending on how your editor is set up it may wrap around until it appears as though it's on two lines. But if you look at the actual line numbers, it will only show one line. Pretty cool, huh

Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- This command comes in handy oftentimes when you forgot a punctuation mark, a quote, a comma, a semicolon, etc.

## Exercise 04 - Insert and Append

The goal of this exercise is to move fluidly between insert with `i` and append with `A`.

Oh no! Our coworker failed us again. They forgot to use the `let` keyword, semicolons and add a few commas. Can you clean up this code?

1. Starting with Line 96, add the missing `let` and `;` following the pattern you see on Line 90.
2. Repeat for Lines 98 and 100.
3. Line 102 has two typos. It's missing commas between the numbers and a semicolon.

<!-- Text for exercise starts -->

```javascript
let a = 1;

b = 2

c = 3

d = 4

let nums = [1234]
```

<!-- Text for exercise ends -->

### Tips

- Don't worry if you don't know JavaScript! The goal is to teach you Vim using some real-world examples, not to teach you JavaScript.

## Exercise 05 - Reviewing Commands

The goal of this exercise is to both reflect on what you've learned and practice a bit more finger movement between `A`, `esc` and `i`.

1. Start at Line 125.
2. Use the `A` command.
3. Hit `esc`.
4. Use the `i` command.
5. Type in the command that matches the description to the left of the `=`.
6. Repeat for Lines 126-130.

<!-- Text for exercise starts

Commands I know so far:
- moves left toward the *house* = `h`
- moves down (*jumping* off a ledge) = ``
- moves up (*kicking* a soccer ball upward) = ``
- moves right (*left*to right, like English) = ``
- lets me *insert* text = ``
- lets me *Append* text = ``

Text for exercise ends -->

## Command Complete 🎉

Congrats! You did it ✅.

You have mastered the `A` command.

6/22 commands done.

### Reflecting

Reflecting on what you've learned so far, think about these questions and pretend you're explaining them to someone who is new to Vim.

- What is the `A` command used for?
- What mode does it place you in?
- How is it different from `i`?